Value Delivery
Business Collaborations
Team Dynamics and Culture
Retrospectives

Value Delivery: 
---------------------------
Some signs that your team is experiencing value delivery issues could include things like:
the team has started missing expected delivery dates and is taking a lot longer than usual to complete tasks. 
Or you might notice that the team seems burned out, is working long hours, and showing signs of exhaustion. 
Or maybe the team has too many items in progress at any given time, preventing tasks from actually getting to done. 

If you start to notice your team is struggling in the Value Delivery area, there are a few things you can do to help.
--------------------------------------------------------
 You can try doing more demos of the solutions with the team to ensure they're delivering on the value roadmap. 
 When the team pauses to take in a big picture view of the working product, they often notice areas where they can improve and speed up the work. 
 You can also use retrospectives to ask the team if anything is slowing them down, like waiting on dependencies or communication challenges. 
 It can also help to do a quick review with the team and make sure that everyone understands what "done" means. 
 And finally, be sure to focus on only a few user stories per Sprint. This ensures the team finishes an item together before moving on. 
 My current team is asked to cover a lot of ground in each Sprint, so it can be tempting for us to try and tackle too much at once. But doing that usually just makes everything take longer, so it's not actually helpful. 
 It's better to maintain focus and deliver fewer Backlog items in one Sprint than to deliver a lot of items in more Sprints.
 
 Business Collaoboration:
 ------------------------------
  business collaboration is about making sure that developers are collaborating with business people on how to build the right product. 
  
  Antipattern:
  Team is overwhelmed with critical feedback or change requests
  US vs Them mentality
  Work on Solution Design  together -- Business + Development
  
  Team Dyanmics and Team culture:
  -------------------------------------
  low Team Moral
  conflicts, issues
  Should have disagreements
  
  Be open and courageous.
  
  6 hats retrospective format
  
  management is about keeping teams on track by providing clear directions. Coaching is about creating motivation and showing support, encouragement, and appreciation. 
  
  SRE - Site Reliability engineering ----------- related to DevOPs
  DevOPs also has Security part
  DevOPs makes Release and Operations portion smooth
  
  How to introduce change:
  --------------------------------
  Start small. Introducing bite size changes
  Listen to feed back
  Be Strategic. Target biggest issues faced by Team.
  Find allies/supporters. Lean on each other for support and ideas.
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

