Need to create an Ecosystem/Culture which is conducive to agility.
Agility needs the right culture to thrive. right interaction with the right people.

Anti-Patterns:
----------------------
1. Sprint Planning:
No or unclear Sprint Goal
Disconnected PBIs

like a Ship with no compass, no direction, no wind and no known destination. / Alice in Wonderland

Good Practices/Patterns:
Team crafts the Sprint Goal and votes for confidence:
Team plans for capacity, considers velocity and forecast and then 'Vote of Confidence' by all about is this forecast realistic, achievable in this Sprint. How confident are we?

2. Flow of value being very slow.
i.e high cycle time, too many actice PBIs (WIP), PBIs not done in the Sprint. Getting Stuck, not pushing to Production often, Context switching, 
just development done (not really done), Risk of inventory

Good Practices/Patterns:
WIP Limit
Kanban board
Use Cumulative Flow Diagram
Ageing of Stories
Mid-Sprint Reviews
Refinement/Story slicing
Paired/group of developers - PBI ownership - ownership to move the PBI through all steps untill prod and not just dev.

3. Siloes of Knowledge / Knowledge Hoarding
Team Members expert in an area, Specialists, not sharing knowledge.
Team felt crippled when the Expert is on Vacation/ sick
Waterfall thinking - Assembly line - 1 person does work and pushes the work item fwd

ID the single points of failure
Seek out training
"Office Hours" / Dedicated hours to work along with Peers to learn from them
Confluence/Recorded videos in Repository
Lunch and Learns
Collaboration, Mob Programming, Pair Programming , rotating the pair
Cross Training to develop T-shaped skills
Situation based interview by Scrum Team to guage cultural fit. We are not here to optimize for ur comfort.

4. Inter-Team Dependencies
Deployment/Ops/Patching Dependencies
DB Restores, Env Patching 

Confluence documentation/Board instead of verbal; It should be a planned activity to have less impact.
Nexus/ Scrum of Scrum - Elevate the transparency to Org level

5. Production Deployment
Go-live Release - Go live play book from earlier release
Confluence can be used to Crowd Source the bottom up intelligence of the Team. Scrum/Agile core belief: The People who are doing the work has the wisdom.
We can use process/tools to unleash/tap the collective bottom up intelligence. tag feature of confluence.
Rollback plan to Manage the risk of production going wrong. needs to be documented as well.
Separate DevOps Team-------This is another Silo. Enable the Development Team to deploy to production.

6. How to make it work? 
Idea of Experimentation / Hypothesis / Delegation Level 2 Sell (I will try and sell it to them) 
7 delegation Levels - 
Level 1: I will Tell them 
Level 2: I will try and Sell it to them (at the end this is what we do)
Level 3: I will consult and then Decide (may long time)
Level 4: We will agree together (All come together and agree)
5: I will advise but they decide
6: I will Inquire after they decide
7: I will fully delegate

This is what we are going to do, This is how we are going to do it. Even if it doesnt mak esense to u, We are going to try it as hypothesis and measure the result to see.
Say We are goining to try. If it works. We are open to suggestion. Do u have any suggestions? Give 
How does ur suggestion bring more value, How is it better for the Org / for the Customer,
is it in alignment with Scrum values. We'll Measure. We ll use metrics to see it gives results. 




















