How do you assess the current level of Agile Maturity? 
What do you think is right approach to take team to next level?
What if teams are already at high maturity of agile, what’s role of coach?


https://youtu.be/XtESMQ2wcm8
https://age-of-product.com/measure-agility/

Notes on the video: Open Source Agility Assessment Framework AAF

Agile Maturity Indicators:
------------------------------
1. People and Communication
2. Organizational Excellence
3. Technical Excellence

Autonomy:
Self- Organization: Empower Teams (Decisions, Accountability)
The Team handles its own problems (No Scrum Mom/Pop / SM)
Supporting each other as Team Members (Bonding)
Understanding that Agile is a Team Sport
Focus on Outcome instead of Output
Respect Scrum Values (Commitment, focus, openness, respect, courage)
Safety to raise and discuss issues


Accountability:
People want to choose their own Tools and Devices/ Tech Stack

Mastery: (based on Learning)
Short Feedback Loops (User Tests, Customer Development - Engineers want to talk to Customers too.)
Use of Meaningful Retrospectives
Continuous Team Coaching (Guild / Code Mentors..) People want to become better at what they do.
Hands on experience over Credentialism

Mastery: (based on Competence)
People with T-shaped Competencies
Active Knowledge Sharing - Continuous Learning, No withholding of knowledge, Knowledge sharing beyond the realm of Product /Tech.
Budget to attend Conferences
Center of Excellence for Agile

Mastery (based on Team Building)
Cross functional Teams - No dependencies - End to End delivery capability
Stable, Long living Teams - No movement across Projects
Support by an experience Scrum Master/ Mentor/ Coach

Purpose:
Inclusion: 
Product Discovery
Product Roadmap Creation
Release Planning

Communication and Collaboration:

Trust and Respect:
Safety to disagree
Honest
Candid Peer Feedback

Conflict Resolution: - Doesnt mean absence of Conflict, WE need to pull it as a Team

Constructive disagreement
'Disagree but commit' approach
No tyranny of compromise
Non-violent communication

Collaboration:
No scripted collaboration
No incentives to withhold knowledge/information
No finger-pointing, No blame game

Organizational Excellence:
Embrace the culture of Experimentation. Embrace and Celebrate Failures. Validate Hypothesis by running experiments
Curiosity as a norm. Not afraid to leave ur comfort zone. Child-like approach.
Un-dogmatic attitude. Live shu-ha-ri principle. (Dont follow any methodology as a bible)
Transparency - Share data and information at all levels.

Leadership:
No HIPPOism (HIPPO means the Highest (income) Paid Person’s Opinion.)
Focus on Innovation, quality and business value.
Support agile ways of working fully
Have Agile as the core of the Company Culture
Respect for Roles, Principles and Processes

Management: (People Management / Team Management)
Managers to Servant Leaders
Trust in People and Teams. Trust in the capabilities of Team
Provide Tools and Facilities to become Agile
Gemba and Kaizen becomes standard practices.

Organizational Design;
Abandon Functional Silos for Cross Functional Teams
Remove the redundant middle mamagement Layers (Flatten the Hierarchy)
No more Command and Control, Compliance driven Org
HR aligns with requirements of Self-Organising Teams.( Ex: Job Titles)
The Organization morphs into Team of Teams

Clear Objectives:
Shared vision among all Actors
Clear Strategy 
Clear Priorities

Business Value Focus:
Customer Centricity Mindset
Delivering Business Results
Shifting the IT focus Business needs
From Project Budgets to Product Teams

Technical Excellence:

Process Level:
DevOps (CI/CD, Deployment at will)
Regular Cadence of Releases
Identifying suitable Metrics (Lead time, Cycle time, no. of experiments)






















