https://thecoreprotocols.org/
https://kasperowski.com/


What do you need to make a high performing Team: Psychological safety
Sense of Safety and Trust
Team operates at high emotional intelligence.
Team: not just a group of people doing similar work.

Teams that measure high on Psychological Safety measure high on Performance.
When People feel safe, they do better at what they are doing.

How do you feel when you are with you are with your Team mates?

When you are together as a team, Do you feel safe?

Safe to take risks.
Safe to try something new, Experiment.
Safe to admit you don't know something.
Safe to ask for help.

You don't have to wear a metaphorical mask.
You can be 'you' all the time.
You can show up as yourself as you really are.

TEI: Team/Group Emotional Intelligence

Core Protocols / Building Blocks: Easy behaviours that you can adopt in your Teams to make it high performing
Habits to build.

1. Positive Bias: non-negativity

Activity:
Yes, But...
Yes, and...

2. Freedom / Autonomy

Pass: Safe to opt-out

I do not want to participate in this Activity.
Nobody hassles you / Tries to get you to do the activity.
Nobody talks about you. Nobody asks you to explain why you are passing.

Check-out: Leaving/ Exiting Temporarily - Leaving a room / meeting
Nobody tries to make you stay-in / check -in.

When I am with you Team mates, I am 100% with you.
Not distracted by other things.
You should be always doing the most important thing. It would be foolish not to.
Nothing more important to do than the thing we are doing now.
If there is something more important to do , go do it

Self-awareness: Know why you are there (in the Team).
Individuals know what is important to them.
Check -in
Ask for help - Articulate what they want, how they feel, what they are thinking.
Personal Alignment

way to accelerate connection with each other:
Check in:
----------
I feel......
Glad / Sad / Mad / Afraid
describe
I pass
I'm in

Listener respond: You are welcome.

Personal Alignment: What is important to you.
--------------
I want...
What's blocking you from what you want?


Passion / Courage / Fun / Integrity / Presence
Health / Wisdom / Self-awareness / Peace

Practice your future Super power.

---------------------------------------------------------

3. Connection: Support each Other
Ask open questions.

Check-in
Ask for help
Personal alignment
Intention Check
Investigate - Connect more deeply by asking and listening


I'm Curious...
Will you tell me more about...

Just listen.

4. Love / Friendship.
A group of people who love each other, Care for each other.
Others matter to them.

5. Productivity:
Decidor protocol: Making decisions together - Aligned together
Conflict resolution
Perfection Game - Get Feedback

Error Handling:
Protocol Check to get back on track.

mirror neurons - model the behaviour. People will copy.
Start sharing how you feel.
Opt-out when can't give 100%

Physical space Vs Digital Space.
