 IThe Improvement Kata, as described by Mike Rother in his book Toyota Kata, is a systematic, scientific, method for problem-solving in pursuit of a measurable objective. 
 

 A Kata in Japanese martial arts is a practice that you repeat over and over again until it becomes habitual. 
 It's like in music, practicing your scales. Or in cooking, having a particular way of combining your ingredients that you use all the time. 
 The idea with the Improvement Kata is that improvement becomes habitual. 
 
 It's a practice that you repeat until it becomes habitual, and then it becomes a building block for higher-level creative processes. 
  So in this case, the Kata we're practicing is getting better. That should be part of everyone's daily work. It should be something we do all the time.
  
   So, as presented by Mike Rother there are four steps to the Improvement Kata model. 
   - Number one is understanding the direction or challenge.
   - See the current Condition. . Their current condition is expressed in their activity accounting map,
     that's how you could see both in terms of the budget spent on those activities, and in terms of the cycle time drivers, that was their current condition. 
   - establish the target condition
   - Iterate towards the target condition.
   
   Dont tell people how to achieve the target condition. Instead encourage them to think on problem solving, come up with experiments.
    So everyone is daily thinking about experiments they can run to try and remove obstacles in pursuit of establishing that next target condition.
   
    No one wins unless everyone wins, and the focus of the teams is on problem-solving and collaborating to achieve the outcomes, not making sure that they did the stories they were assigned. That's very powerful as a way of working, and it's also very simple to communicate, and we actually focus on achieving the outcomes, not doing the bits of work. 
    
     Then think about helping your teams run experiments. 
     How could you help implement the Improvement Kata? How can you get your teams to change their behavior to think about experiments, and experimenting with change instead of implementing stories. That's a huge mind shift change, and it requires managers to develop a relationship of trust with developers. Developers are used to order-taking, it's comfortable for them, because as long as they follow their orders, they don't get into trouble. When we're asking people to experiment instead, that requires a much higher level of trust between the people doing the work and management, so you need to work really hard to build up that trust so that when people try experiments and they don't work, people know they're not gonna be punished for them.
     
     
   
