Current Value
Time to Market
Ability to Market
Unrealized Value


Metrics:
----------------
Customer Satisfaction Score/Index Survey, Net Promoter Score - Are we producing the right value for the Customers?

Who are our Customers?

Monthly Demoes, then more frequently

Defect Trends: Unrealized Value
------------------------------
Product Cost Ratio:
-----------------------------
Change Failure Rate - DevOPs - Failure rate of the new Product Feature deployment

DORA Framework / Accelerate Metrics: 
--------------------------------------
How fequently we are able to Push to Production


Mean Time to resolve: MTTR - Operation Metrics for DevOPs/SRE Team
How quickly can we resolve the incidents on Production

If I dont play Soccer, It doesnt matter if Half of England is celebrating
Development Team may not bother about OPs Metrics.

Installed Version Index


UI and UX Version of Ketchup bottle

Build & Integration Frequency

Production Incident Count



Time to Pivot: Innovation Metrics -- How soon can we accomodate the change in the Market Conditions.
Ex: GST got introduced, How soon can banking System adapt these new changes.
Ex2: Covid --- Remote working -- How soon can u adapt to cahnges in operations. Ranging from 4 days to 45 days


Introduction to the metrics depends on the Teams maturity

Leakage ---------- Engineer + OPs Team together -- Only then We can have a robust fix.
OPs Team can only throw the water in glass and put it back under the leaking tap.

Release Stabilization Period -- No regression
Ex: MS Excel. Old features matter more than new Features

Lead Time for Changes
Business ask ----------> time to build ( 1/2/3// Sprints)
Prioritization of what matters most.

Customer Cycle Time

Time - to - Learn: - new technologies - Cloud, AI/ML, Dosckerization


Employee Satisfaction:

------------------------------

Which Metrics to use depends on the Context

Find out In whch quadrant does our Product fall? - Is it new? Is it Live?

new Product: MVP focused. Innovation focused. New era Technology.
Standardization -> Automation

Also depends on How long are we supporting this version.

4 quadrant Product Stage Approach by Gartner

Is your Product Innovative categroy -- Block Chain... etc
They dont have any basline. They are Pioneers.
What matters is --- Get Customer feedback and adapt 
Step 1 - Development

Step 2 - Scale. Also work on Ops. Need Good Dev OPs Collaboration

If Stable Products, Work is mostly on small config changes



----------------
***Need to adopt because of Customer Behaviour, Milienials -- When they have money/jobs to spend
Out of Business if no change in model

Its the time of Product Companies. Product Thinking, System Thinking is needed by the Enterprises.

DORA Metrics
SABER Metrics in Sports

*** Dont focus on Water Melon Metrics.. Green Outside and Red Inside

Ask 5 Ws and 1 H - Why are we measuring? Who is going to use and how?
Is it really required to tie Metrics to Business.

Team = Squad
Program = Train

Qualitative Vs Quantitative Metrics
We need both. Data points are very important. 
Discount --- when given number only then it attracts people Ex: 70%. If we just say We give good discount, doesnt make sense.

Org
----
Org's Vision
|
OKRs: Objectives and Key Results
|
Goals (Yearly/Quarterly/ Sprint wise / Daily)
|
Metrics
|
Hypothesis


To tie a metric to Business, We need to start with Hypothesis, and validate them by monitoring, seeing data.

Can't change the metrics very often. When Value proposition changes, metrics may change. Some metrics may retire.

Metrics changes with Context.



Factors to consider:
------------------------------
We have diverse Stakeholders. 
There are lots of Interdependence in Org. 


Create a healthy ecosystem where metrics are dealt in transparent manner as a BAU. not a closed door topic.
Are people comfortable to report risks, failures. Only then we can have room for Innovation. - Example: Six sigma 3 defects in million. People were acared to report more defects.

Tangible Vs InTangible Measurement for Value Delivered
------------------------------------
Tangible:
$ Value realized
Revenue
Profit
Stock Price

InTangible:
Employee and Customer Satisfaction
Brand Value
Patents/ Copyrights
Goodwill/ loyalty


Known/Un-known Quadrants
-----------------------------

Unknown Unknows are leading to suprising facts. often leads to change in course.

Time bound Metrics 
Deployment Frequency
Lead Time and Cycle Time
Downtime
MTTR

Effort based Metrics
Committement to Completion
Throughput
Rework Effort
Load/Capacity
Return of Efforts
Low Operational Cost

Cost Metrics
Team Cost
Feature Cost
Cost of Quality
Cost of Overheads
Innovation
Customer Loyalty]Employe Happiness
































