Nexus Framework:
--------------------

When multiple (3 to 9) Scrum Teams are working on one product  
It allows the Teams to unify as one larger unit, a Nexus
Nexus augments Scrum minimally with one new role  [Nexus Integration Team (NIT)] and some expanded events and artifacts. It preserves Scrum. 

The framework focuses rigorously on 2 core scaling matters: 
cross-team dependencies
integration issues

NIT - is accountable for the successful integration of all work created by all the Scrum Teams in a Nexus.
and ensures that an Integrated Increment is produced at least every Sprint.

Activities may include: 
Identifying cross-team issues, 
Raising awareness of dependencies early,
and ensuring integration tools and practices are understood and used. 
In emergency situations, the NIT may actually do the work in order to fulfil their accountability. 

NIT Composition:
PO + Scrum Master + Members/representatives of all the scrum team.
Composition of the NIT may change over time with exception of the Product Owner. 
NIT membership may be full or part time. It should take precedence over other accountability.

Refinement is a formal event. The number, frequency, and duration of
Refinement meetings will vary based on the dependencies in the Product Backlog


Nexus Daily Scrum. This is a brief meeting that happens before each individual Scrum Teams’ Daily Scrums. make integration issues transparent at least once a day.

The Nexus Sprint Review replaces the individual Scrum Team Sprint Reviews.

Nexus Sprint Retrospective - 3 part event - 
NIT meet to identify shared challenges
Individual Retrospectives
NIT - action on the shared challenges

Nexus Sprint Planning - 2 part
1. collaborative activity where each team in the Nexus selects their work for the Sprint.
2. Individual Sprint Planning

Visualization Boards: 
https://scrumorg-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/drupal/2020-06/Visualizing%20the%20Nexus%20Sprint%20Backlog.pdf
----------------------------
a. Cross-Team Refinement board
b. Nexus Sprint Backlog

Dependency Arrows
Color coding
