Topics:
-------------
Human System Dynamics



"Awareness and Consciousness"
----------------------------------
Be aware of your capabilities, Knowledge and Strengths

Differentiate between your Personal and Professional Self.

What makes a good Coach:
-------------------------
Have Empathy. People may share Personal matters.

Confidentiality: What/What not to disclose with the Stakeholders about the 1:1 you had with People.
Be Conscious that we do not discuss People. We discuss ideas.

Focus: Pomodoro approach.

Have clear Agenda, Clear instuction as to what you expect from them.

When you Your first start Transformation. Your relationship is of a Consultant (an Expert). 
Once they are comfortable with all questions... You sit back and observe. and then you coach.

Power of Now:
--------------------------
We'll focus on first 2 iterations

12 Principles of Agile:

Art of Simplicity: How you'd implement Simplicity in your Work Life Scenarios
Reflection: 

**Transformation includes:
----------------------------
People, Processes Tools/Infra, Org Culture

Understand what is the goal of transformation? It shouldnt be just cost optimization.

There's nothing like Knowledge Coaching.. Its all about Human Coaching.. If u can relate to, empathize with ppl,..

Consultant Vs Trainers Vs Coach

There'll be Slow moments/ Passive moments.

Feedback should be on Activity and Action.

As a Coach - "Power of Visualization" is very important.  ----> Bring in this within Teams
They should be able to visualize their Tasks. 


3 Steps:
------------
1. Transition
2. Change in the way of working
3. Transformation

Comb shaped skills: Jack of many, Master of 1

Find ur Strong areas:
---------------------------
Facilitation Coach
Product Coach
Leadership Coach

Y transformation is not favoured:
-------------------------------------
- Resistance/reluctance from mid management that they may become redundant
- Follower/ Execution mindset in Indian Culture. Team members are not empowered as decision makers at their level.

Working with People:
---------------------------
Social, approachable, Emotional Qoutient, able to empathize
Have you worked with People in different capacities. atleast 7-8 different teams.
Conscious, aware, 
Make judgement based om facts and not on emotions.

Coach cannot survive without discipline, risk taking, able to come out of comfort zone

Via Transformation, Coach changes People's perspective towards peple, making them Passionate, organize better/ plan better/ work better.

agile should be a part of KPI to the middle management given by the Leadership. Not just increasing the margin.

We must have a roadmap of bringing in the agile transformation.

Identify whether its just transition / pilot or transformation.

Adaptability is the key in VUCA.

State of Agile:
------------------------- 

Key Challenges | Success Factors How does success  look like | Impact of Indian Culture and Mindset | Impact of Socio Economic Status of India | Impact of COVID19
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are looked upon as an economy which is cost-effective and affordable and get Work Opportunity. Socio economic state of India. 
We need to have decision making power. It builds morale of Indian Management Team. Establish similar hierarchy in India. Deep Democracy.

We have a hierarchy, Authority culture. People dont want to give in their power. Transparency is effected. We associate age with Knowledge and respect.
Removing the threat aspects for the layers that are resisting. 

Organization Culture need to be bring in the change - empowering. everyone can challenge the decision.

We have accomodating culture. We donot say no - We stretch at the loss of work-life balance.

Not being paid well --- effects agile tools, trainings.

We have a frugal innovation mindset.

Young and Energetic minds.

There is resistance to change. Fear of failure. 

Alignment, Shift in mindset moving away from Predictability. Common understanding of vision and mission of Org and Teams. Not just presentation in the town-hall. 
address what is in it for me for each employee. Create a Story and connect people emotionally. Are we going to do pilot or big bang. How are we going to sustain, how are we going to handle failure
Create a psychologolical safe space where employees can ask questions, know better how things will be changing.

Underestimated the scope of work involved in Transformation. expectations have to set accordingly.
People's work has to be adjusted so that agile isnot considered extra/burden.

Coaching Competency at its core is missing.

QA Testing from Customer Experience point of view.

DevOps should be an integral part of Agile Transformation.

Challenge of trust -- in remote working. Leadership addressed this issue.
Tools are available.
How to have governance model.
Each team were given OKRs.

Why do we want to go for agile? Can u give 5 pain points? Is it chaotic or smooth?

Management is looking for Output based metrics and not outcome based metrics?
Hierarchcal verticals or silos. team members from different verticals.

Coaches and Leadership should talk the same language. Shouldnt talk framework lingo. but the Agile terms.

Use the Collective Intelligence of the Tribe.

BIG room planning | Problem solving | 

As an Agile enabler, how much time do you spend on an average in a month in helping individuals, teams, or leaders in improving their overall understanding of agile and lean principles, and to improve their effectiveness in daily work activities

Consulting: As an Agile enabler, how much time do you spend on an average in a month in consulting? (e.g., activities where rather than working with people, you take a system view and (re)design processes for your organisation/client in how the work is organised, managed, tracked and reported by various teams or individuals involved in it. You might/not be assisted by other individuals). put N/A if not applicable

Project Management: As an Agile enabler, how much time do you spend on an average in a month in project management functions? (e.g., planning, organising, staffing, leading, coordinating, controlling, tracking and communicating, etc. While these might be more pronounced for internal agile enablers, we recognise that even the external agile enablers might be called upon to perform such tasks periodically or sporadically). put N/A if not applicable *

Organisational Tasks: As an Agile enabler, how much time do you spend on an average in a month in undertaking organisational tasks? (e.g., assist your manager in overall strategy, business planning, budgeting, human resource planning, recruitment, etc?). put N/A if not applicable *

"Success Metrics: How is the success of agile initiatives or implementation measured inside your organisation OR at your Client? Mere awareness of these goals is not enough. What is key is to know the following:
- is the team aware of what is expected of them?
- these goals are explicitly stated in their individual and/or team goals, and their appraisals and any subsequent rewards are closely tied to those goals?
- these goals are not merely ""year-end"" goals but are broken-down into small interim milestones and measured and tracked at each delivery frequency (commensurate to the size of delivery) and finally
- these interim milestones are used by the teams to adapt their next delivery cycle to improve the possibility of hitting more close to the eventual goals"

Delivery impact: How is your delivery impact measured? *
There were clearly defined Delivery objectives and it was easy to measure impact
Direction of delivery is changing in nature and there weren't clear measuring points. Manager decided delivery impact
There were defined delivery impact metrics but they did not fit right, and needed change.
Every team has their own defined metrics, and that worked well for Organisation

Efficiency impact: While delivering software, how does the team know if their development practices are indeed getting improved? *
There were Retrospectives and checks in place, and they always helped team with delivery as well as improvement
There were Retrospectives and checks in place, but they were mere meetings and no improvement came out of them
Random approach, team will only be in fire fighting mode

Adaptability impact: How adaptable is your team to change? (for example, how soon can the team consider a new idea and test it (or even push it) into production, or how soon can a bad code be rolled back, or how cheaply can the software be modified for a new locale or a use case) *
Very Fast: They can pivot as per Market/Customer need
Very Slow: Too many approvals, decision makers and stakeholders make it extremely difficult to decide
Differ for each team: Some teams do well, while others struggle, depending on impact of their Product on Org
Entirely depends on the Manager, how strong or capable he is in making his way

Product impact: How does the product impact the market ? (for example, how does the product score in product reviews or a product shootout, etc.) *
We are not clear on that
We have Business Value, but we still don't understand how that maps to and evaluate Product impact
Though we don't have clarity but Product Owner / Management has clarity. They measure in some way
Entire team has clarity

Customer impact: How do the customers find your product?(For example, starting with the customer acquisition metrics (CPA) to how they find the product experience (NPS score of the product goes up from 63 to 76, or the engagement metrics (e.g. time spent, page views, etc.) go up by 34%, or the monetization metrics (e.g. CTR)) *
Yes, we are made aware of impact on customer via Prodcut Demo meetings, followed a clear communication and shared metrics on Customer Impact
No, we had hints, but no clarity. It appears that Management understands and takes necessary actions accordingly.
We are aware that Customer is unhappy, Management is stressed, and looks like there is no clearly defined way to measure it and hence plan to mitigate the same
We do not have metrics for customer happiness, engagement

Business impact: Were you and your team aware of how does the performance of your product influence the "topline" of the company? (i.e., the revenues that it brings in. For example, the market share of the product goes up from 12% to 17%, or the revenues of the product goes up by 23%, or the company position goes up from #7 to #4 as a result of undertaking the initiatives) *
Yes, team is aware, has clarity and visibility on this
No, we do not know, and we don't know who knows this, whom to ask
Product Owner or Manager was clearly aware and could answer our questions

How much do u manage Talent?
------------------------------------------
Software development requires high-quality talent that not only has the required functional knowledge and technical skills to perform the tasks but also possesses the mindset of problem-solving, and associated soft skills that enable an individual to operate as part of a high-performance team. In a new-age agile organisation, the nature of skills required is far different from a traditional one, and thus it is critical to identify those differences, and align the people practices to new set of capabilities to ensure the change is effective, far-reaching and self-sustaining in the long run. While several of these might require active involvement and ownership of line manager and functional experts, the role of change enabler is in being able to articulate pre-conditions for a successful and effective change result, and align various constituents to work in unison.


Hiring criteria: When hiring team members, what does the hiring team focus on? (Check all that apply) *
Proficiency in specific technology, technical skills
Certifications in case of agile enablers
Soft skills such as presentation, communication, interpersonal skills and leadership
Competencies and mindset such as emotional intelligence & stability, problem solving, continuous learning, adaptability
Agile Ways of working: design thinking, story mapping, story authoring, product discovery, applications of lean & agile pr
Software Craftsmanship: Clean code, unit testing, automation, CICD practices, TDD

Hiring decision: Who all are involved in making the final decision on a new hire ? *
Hiring Manager
HR
Division Head
Team
Customer
Peer group representatives

Mentoring: What is the time duration for which an individual is assigned to every new team member to help them familiarise with the organization, business, product, technical and project details etc ? *
30 days
60 days
90 days
> 90 days
Not done
< 30 days

Role: How is each individual assigned a role in the team ? *
Fixed role decided by the manager based on their job description or the title
Fungible role decided by the manager based on project needs that remains same for a reasonable length of time
Generalising specialist role decided by the team based on key skills and broader team requirement
Generalising specialist role decided by the individual themselves based on their key skills, broader team requirements and their own self-directed learning interests

Goals: Is percentage of goals assigned for: (a) individual performance (b) team performance (c) customer feedback (d) organisational performance goals (e) new learning (f) initiatives or new ideas? *
Yes
It doesn't work like this in our Org
We are not aware

Work allocation: The work is assigned by *
Manager
Architect or Tech Lead
Team Lead
Team consensus
Open allocation, i.e. by self volunteering
Project/ Program Manager
Client /Customer/Sponsors

Tracking: Who tracks the work of an individual team member *
Manager or LeadFeedback frequency: the frequency is *
Annual
Bi-annual
Quarterly
Every month or 1-2 sprints
Every sprint
Real-time

What best describes the nature of performance discussion that you have with your manager?
Rating discussion
Discussion around goals that were met, achievements and areas of improvement
Discussion around my career progression & my developmental plan in the organization
Discussion around goals progress as well as competencies that helped to achieve the goals, my next steps


Architect or Tech Lead
Team
Scrum Master
Self
Client /Customer/Sponsors

Deliver results: How individual delivers results, and it's assessment is done? *
Entirely depends on Manager, he does assessment
There are clearly defined metrics and we all have clear understanding of the same
Client /Customer/Sponsors

Performance feedback: the individual gets feedback on his/her work and performance from *
Manager
Team members
Scrum master
Client /Customer/Sponsors

Feedback frequency: the frequency is *
Annual
Bi-annual
Quarterly
Every month or 1-2 sprints
Every sprint
Real-time

What best describes the nature of performance discussion that you have with your manager?
Rating discussion
Discussion around goals that were met, achievements and areas of improvement
Discussion around my career progression & my developmental plan in the organization
Discussion around goals progress as well as competencies that helped to achieve the goals, my next steps

How do u organize Teams:
---------------------------------

In modern-day software development, the standard unit of software development is a team. While individual talent is almost always mandatory, a far more powerful indicator of success is how well a team performs. In an agile organisation, the teams are elevated to a functionally-independent and fully autonomous units. However, the transformation to such units is neither automatic nor swift. It requires working with several key stakeholders to make commensurate changes to structure, process and culture to make it happen.

Team size: What is the average team size at each location (in case of distributed teams)? *
3-6
7-10
11-15
16-20
20+

Team Structure: Teams at each location are *
Permanently organized functionally (i.e. Dev in one team, QA in another team, etc.)
Temporarily organized as a matrixed team (i.e., individuals are drawn from their functions and assigned to a manager per project
Permanently organized as cross-functional teams at each location (i.e., in a team, there are individuals from Dev, QA and any other functions as required)
A mix, QA-Dev primarily in one team and other skills such as DevOps, UI, data science organised functionally

Self-organizing: When there is a gap in a critical skill in the team or a new opportunity that needs a skills not currently available, the team manages by *
Dropping that feature, component or opportunity in the given delivery cycle because it doesn't have that capability
Train or ask someone else to back-up and manage the gap
Get someone from another team to fill the gap on a temporary basis, or hire a new staff
Proactively cross-train all staff for key skills or opportunity forecast to mitigate such possibility in the medium to long term

Self-sustaining: If your team is left all by itself without any external enabler or expert, how soon before they fall back to the old ways of doing things? *
Immediately
Next delivery cycle (e.g. next sprint)
Next quarter
Next year
Never (i.e., they will continue to work in agile / lean mode by themselves forever)

Team Location: *
Co-location
Distributed

Role of Manager: How do the managers respond to their new roles in an agile organization? *
They feel insecure that the authority of command & control will go away. They feel obsolete with the new way of alignment of scrum teams
They continue to ask for "status, follow-up" and interact with individuals and sub-teams, they still make committments on team's behalf. They continue deeper involvement to "Get the job done"
They continue to support the team with reviews of design-approach-architecture-plans, coaching and training on the new technologies
They look for job options in the organisations where they can continue with their old profile

Which of the following best indicates the structure of your team and organization? *
1. Bureaucratic
2. Few scattered Agile Teams. Entire Org is not Agile.
3. Multiple Agile Teams, but Org is bureaucatic
4. Organization as a network of Agile Teams

How do u build Products:
---------------------------------
In the agile world, building products requires a different thinking compared to waterfall era. How exactly do you, or your team goes about articulating product vision, laying out product roadmap, and executing on it?












































