3 Pillars:
--------------
Enterprise Agility: Culture & Collaboration
Built in Quality: Product Stability - XP & Technical Practices
Time to Market: Fast Delivery - DevOPs & CI/CD

Built in Quality: (Product Quality)
-----------------------
Shift Left Quality/Testing - Fail early 0 in early phases of development
Clean Code & Refactoring
Agile Engineering Practices
XP - TDD/ATDD, BDD, pairing/Mobbing - Fast feedack
Trunk Based Development & Feature Toggle
Chaos Engineering: Chaos Monkey Tool (uses Kubernetes) - to see how reliable is your Software/Service.
War Room Testing/ Break-a-thon

Architecture - MicroServices, Design
Branching Strategy

High Availability
Serverless
AI

DevOPs:
--------------
Containerized Deployment: Containers, Docker, Kubernetes
Deployment on Cloud Vs On-Prem
Infrastructure as Code: Automate Infrastructure Provisioning, Puppet, Chef, Ansible etc.
Automate Deployment
Continuous Delivery / Continuous Deployment
Automate Monitoring & Feedback / Observability




DevSecOps:
Threat Modeling - Designing for Security (Book)
SAST/DAST/IAST (Static/Dynamic Analysis and Security testing)
Secret Managemnet: Vault
Cloud native Security TerraScan (using Docker) by Accurics Company- Scan ur Kubernetes/Github/Terraform files in cloud etc for Vulnerabilities and Compliance Violations
or add it to Pipeline




Enterprise Agility:
-------------------------
Agile Lean Values and Principles
Scaling Frameworks
Organization level metrics to enhance the right behaviour
Cultural changes at Organizational level
Leadership transformation stories / strategies

Decentralized Decision Making, Empower. Give Power to the People who do the Work
Customer/End user involved at every level. for feedback.

Customer Centricity - Enterprise wide .. not just Department
Amplify Digital Listening
Rewire
Customer Connect - to win loyality

Business Continuity: Innovative & Disruptive Business Solutions, Flexible Operating Models, Rethink Disasters(Ex: All Data Center effected by Covide.. not location specific)
Ex: Movie - Covid - release on Digital Platform

Employee Engaement:
Capability Building/Training, Physical & Mental Well being, Talent Management.


Covid: is a Black Swan Event/outlier/Once in blue Moon.
1001 days in the life of a Thanks Giving Turkey. Fed for 1000 days  1 day - roasted & served. (Surprised)

Disrupts, Surprises: Demonetization, GST, Financial Crisis, Hurricane Sandy

"Its not going to be Normal, Its not going to be new normal, We are entering the age of Never Normal"

No BAU ----> Turbulence as Usual (TAU)

Nassim Nicholas Taleb Author: 
Fragile | Resilient | Be Anti-Fragile 


(Embrace uncertainities. Ex: Netflix)

Build reduncies in distribution - alternative way 
"Fail -Safe" to------------ "Safe to fail"


VOID:

Value oriented Incremental Delivery

Initiatives:
----------------
- Customer Connects
- Frequent Employee Connects with leadership - Townhalls. Tell them whats going to happen in future.
- Knowledge Share Sessions
- Automation
- Cyber Bugs
- Release Cycle: in Weeks 
- System Test: Test for Regression/Reliability/Performance ahppens in 5hrs

Product Thinking: Team support Product untill Sustenance not just untill Project Plan.

Are Product companies taking up Platform Mindset? Platform is also a Product.











Bend Git like Beckham - Tips and Tools from the Trenches - 
The new normal is a Myth! Prepare for the “never normal” with Anti-Fragile and Business Agility

The SHIFT314 Evolutionary Leadership Framework (SELF): Scaling Excellence through People:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

People are the Org. If we want agile/adaptable/Eveolutionary Org, We need adaptable People.

**** Culture follows Leadership. Leaders should go first.

Fixed Mindset Vs Growth Mindset Vs Evolutionary Mindset (Choice to evolve oneself to develop the capabilities needed to eveolve an Organization , Introspect, Self-reflection, Self Conscious, Self awareness)

not just Servant Leadership ------------> Evolutionalry Leadership (Doing and Being)

Welcoming Feedback Mindset.

Law of Universe: Survival of the most adaptable. Do we have Evolutionary Capability?

Ex: Our Body is a Symbiosis. To be succeeding with others.. Interdependence with other Organisms. 

Traditional Vs Evolutionary way of Working.
------------------------
Give up the Command and Control
Understand People

Evolve Org DNA - to a healthy, adaptable, people-centric








