How we do the assessment is important:
Coach asks the question to know their practices and give rating to decide the level.

Team tries to be defencive, try to save themselves. Looks like we have audit.

Reverse the mechanism. Make it like a Sport. It creates internal motivation to win the game.
***** Gamification model -- Collect the badges / medals / jewel for achieving each parameter
Dont make it 'Comparison' based.

Dress up, name the roles accodingly.
---------------------------------

Categorization can be done in different ways as per the Org
sit --- crawl -- walk - run

Level 1 -- Level 2

Parameters Identify

If someone expalins Health in medical terms, we dont understand
Need to explain 'Agile Maturity' in detailed way. Team needs to be mentored.

Explore Zone | Evolve | Expand | Excel in Agile Adoption

Collect the badges / medals

Teams identify their levels and nominate themselves. Coach come and observe.


Product Thinking
Transparency
Feedback
Visual Radiator
Design Principles
Roles
Motivators
Leaders
Automation
DevOPs


Assess the Team's Readiness. (When they are starting/ migrating from Waterfall) -------- Readiness Index

Scrum Roles
PO Identified
Business onboarded for Requirement gathering?
How is their CI/CD 
Country / Domain / Compliance Readyness
Funding

Understand that - Tech people need not be outspoken.
Dont try to change people's personality. Respect them.

Get the Team in Competitive Spirit mode not in Comparison mode.
"Bring them out of comfort zone but never out of their Strength Zone"
Let them find out what areas they want to work upon.

Maturity Assessment Workshop to explain the rules of the Game will happen after few months post Agile training, Scrum implementation has started.


for L5 -------- Along with them take them on journey to Continuos Improvement (Kaizen)
Introduce them to
OKR: Objectives and Key Results
How aligned are they with the Business Objectives

Output Vs Outcome:
----------------------------------
First know what business problem are you trying to solve. What is most important to them.
After the product is built - Ask - is the purpose solved? Get the Data Insights.

Ex: Bring Hyd Exhibition online
What is most important - Business card - new customers

Output = Just building the feature and delivering it (KPIs:  low defect, deliver on time..)
Outcome = Build - Deliver - Take feedback - collect data insights - evaluate - celebrate.

Are people using the feature, Business value, NPS - Net Promoter Score.

Business Outcomes, Vision, Problem statement should be shared with the Engineering group.
We dont need Siloes. Engineering Teams to be shown the big picture.

No Cognitive Bias. Coach Technical PPl to Probe: Ask the Business people, Understand.
Clarify, Validate.

Gemba:
------------------
Developers spend time on-site to understand the customer's domain and working.

Pech Kucha Presentations: 20*20 ---- 20 slides each 20 seconds
---------------------------
Inquiry Workshop:
---------------------------

less text. 20 sec auto timer
Can use visuals, images

What are we going to do as part of Agile Transformation
Week 1:
Work shop 1: Time box: 
Agenda

Workshop2: Lets rebuild relationships

Vision of the Transformation - Agile DevOPs


Find out Standard work Vs Innovation work

Have a walk thru

Collaboration Workshops:

Workshop1: Why
Workshop: What will change in your ways of working
Workshop 3: How: What is expected from each role.When. Trial rounds for a couple of weeks
Workshop 4: 

****Bring the 'Why' Culture in the Org

Spectrum of Change:
---------------------------
Sustaining Zone - Kaizen
Breakthrough Zone - Kaikaku
Disruptive Zone - Kakushin




























