clear understanding about how an organization’s various parts fit together and how value is delivered to its customers.

They are working blueprints for how your organization functions and should drive discussions and decision making at all levels.

 the benefits of well-executed value stream mapping go far beyond how it’s commonly but narrowly viewed: as a work flow design tool. 

 The inclination to jump into the weeds and design micro-level improvements before the entire work system—the macro picture—is fully understood, is a key contributor to suboptimization.

  Value stream mapping, the macro perspective, provides the means for leadership to define strategic improvements to the work flow, whereas process-level mapping† enables the people who do the work to design tactical improvements. 
 

The lack of understanding about how work flows—or, more commonly, doesn’t flow—across a work system that’s sole purpose is to deliver value to a customer is a fundamental problem that results in poor performance, poor business decisions, and poor work environments. 
Conflicting priorities, interdepartmental tension, and—in the worst cases—infighting within leadership teams are common outcomes when a company attempts to operate without a clear understanding about how an organization’s various parts fit together and how value is delivered to its customers. 

More broadly, a value stream is the sequence of activities required to design, produce, and deliver a good or service to a customer, and it includes the dual flows of information and material. Most value streams are highly cross-functional: the transformation of a customer request to a good or service flows through many functional departments or work teams within the organization.

An extended value stream includes those activities that precede a customer request (e.g., responding to a request for a quote, determining market needs, developing new products, etc.) or occur following the delivery of a good or service to a customer (e.g., billing and processing payments or submitting required compliance reports).

While many of a value stream’s activities occur sequentially, others may be performed concurrently (in parallel) to other work.

Value streams come in many forms. The primary type of value stream is one in which a good or service is requested by and delivered to an external customer. 

Other value streams support the delivery of value; we often refer to these as value-enabling or support value streams. Examples of support value streams include recruiting, hiring, and onboarding; IT support; the annual budgeting process; and the sales cycle. 

one of the first steps you’ll take in preparing to analyze a value stream is defining the scope—the “fence posts” or beginning and ending points for review. This will depend largely on the problems you need to address or the performance improvements you would like to realize.

you will eventually want to analyze and improve each product family’s value stream. The best methodology we’ve found to date for this effort is value stream mapping, a tool that helps you visualize complex work systems so you can address the disconnects, redundancies, and gaps in how work gets done.

Second, value stream maps provide a highly visual, full-cycle view—a storyboard—of how work progresses from a request of some sort to fulfilling that request. This cycle can be described as request to receipt, order to delivery, ring to ring (phone call to cash register), cradle to grave, or quote to cash.

Many organizations are structured as a series of function-based silos that bear little relationship to the customer fulfillment cycle. As depicted in Figure 1.3, value stream maps force an organization to think holistically in terms of cross-functional work systems and product families.

The ability to visualize non-visible work is an essential first step in gaining clarity about and consensus around how work gets done.

When organizations see the interconnectedness of various departments and processes, they make better decisions, work together in more collaborative ways, and avoid the common and costly trap of suboptimization. There’s little benefit, for example, in achieving faster patient flow through a hospital emergency department if there are no available beds in the patient care units to admit an emergency room patient into owing to a cumbersome discharge process.

while traditional organization structure and business management is based on functional silos, the customer experience is largely dependent upon the interplay between those silos.

Value stream maps also counter the psychological tendency to feel that your world is more complex than any other and that it’s almost unmanageable. Very few things are unmanageable once they are distilled to their basic components. 

Value Stream Mapping vs Process Mapping
---------------------------------------
when they should use value stream mapping and when they should turn to process-level mapping. While it’s situational, we nearly always begin with value stream mapping to align leadership and set priorities. We often turn to process mapping for those sections of the value stream that require deeper exploration and for creating standard work, an improvement requirement that requires more specificity than a value stream map provides.

Value stream mapping activities are strategic; kaizen events are tactical. Kaizen events should be heavily biased with the people who do the work being improved, and value stream mapping activities should be heavily biased with the people who oversee the work being improved.

 So if you’re tempted to create current state value stream maps to deepen understanding and achieve an alignment objective, lobby hard to take it to the next step: designing an improved value stream and then making it happen. As Goethe asserted, “Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Willing is not enough; we must do.”3
 
 Leadership involvement:
 ---------------------
 Since value stream mapping is a strategic improvement activity and the future state map often requires significant organizational change, the team must include those individuals who can authorize that level of change. As you’ll learn more about in Chapter 2, if no one on the team has the authority to make the changes, the future state map and transformation plan must go through a “sales” process, which can delay the initiation of improvements by weeks or months, or even stall them permanently.
 
 





