 Value? 
 ----------
 This means that businesses can only be sure if a thing has value if customers pay for it and ideally utilize it enough to make them want to recommend or renew it.
 Until then, any beliefs you have about the value of your product remain unproven.
 
 Value Stream Map:
 ----------------------
 - Optimizing the whole, one of the seven lean principles, means caring about the flow of value through the entire process from beginning to end. 
 This end-to-end process is called the value stream.
 
 , the very first step in creating a value stream is determining the boundaries.
 I want you to think about the very first activity that happens to a piece of work and then the very last activity that happens to a piece of work. 
 
 visualize every activity in the process from the very start that you identified to the very end.
 
  When you look at a small part of a value stream, say a single team's part of the process, you can easily get a false sense of efficiency.
  But when you start to look at how work moves across teams and department boundaries, wait times often increase dramatically.
  In most organizations, there is much more time spent waiting than working and you find flow efficiency numbers less than 20%.
  - Well, most of the time, our work is queued up waiting for someone especially here. 
  
   identify activities that directly contribute to that value creation. These are called value-added activities. Unfortunately, our processes aren't just comprised of value-added activities. The rest of these activities are classified as a waste.
   
    There are two different types of waste, necessary and unnecessary. 
    Necessary waste is made up of activities that don't directly create value, but must be done to support the process as it is today. 
    For example, having a dependency coordination meeting every week doesn't actually create value, but it may be just the thing you need to avoid unexpected delays due to current work structure that's in place. 
    Any other activity that isn't value added work or necessary waste is classified as unnecessary waste. These are activities that don't directly add value or support the process currently needed to create value. 
    A good example might be providing status that you can get from a work tracking system or visual board. 
    
    Unnecessary waste is the first and biggest target for elimination. Sometimes people will argue about whether or not certain waste is necessary. If the answer is not clear, ask yourself, what would happen if the activities in question were abandoned? Could value still be created?
    If getting rid of the questionable activities would stop value generation, or would cause you to have to do other non-value added activities of equal or larger effort, then the waste is considered necessary. 
    
    Your challenge is to transform these necessary wastes into unnecessary ones so they can be easily discarded and so that more of your time and effort can be spent on value added activities. 
    
    
    One of my favorite mantras is maximize the amount of work not done. 
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This requires practice in discerning the value from the waste, and the necessary from the unnecessary. 
    With that skill we can identify and eliminate waste in a way that helps up to move quickly, deliver more customer value, and have happy teams in the process.
    
    
 
 
 
 
